---
layout: post
title: Bitcoin Miners Visualization
categories: [university]
tags: [information visualization, bitcoin, python, d3.js, node.js, web-app, big data, mongoDB]
fullview: true
icon: fa fa-bitcoin fa-lg
source: V1LL0/bitcoinVisualization
---


This is a university project develop for the course [Information Visualization]. The purpose of this project is to visualize the bitcoin's miners interactions. A miner is a particular user who collaborate in the building of bitcoin blockchain.

To do this we chose to develope two types of visualization, due to the different time range considered. <br/>
Both of them are represented by a graph view, in particular:
<ul>
	<li>macro-level interaction: it's possible to view the interactions between miners over the time. In particular it is possible to view miners that collaborated in the same blocks. So a node indicates a miner and a link means a collaboration between two miners.</li>
	<li>micro-level interaction: it's possible to view which blocks are mined by a miner. In this chart there are two types of node: the red one indicates a miner and the green one a block. A link between them indicates that the particular miner mined that block. </li>
</ul>
Also we provided five filters to reduce the huge amount of informations.

The project is dived into two foldier:
<ul>
	<li>Preprocessing: a parser of bitcoind's data written in Python. This module read the entire database and persist the filtered information into our mongoDB database.</li>
	<li>Visualization: a web-app that provide the visualization service described before.</li>
</ul>





<!-- Contributors -->
<br/>

<ul class="tag_box list-unstyled list-inline">
	  <li><i class="fa fa-user fa-lg"></i></li>
			<li><a href="http://v1ll0.github.io">
				<span>Valerio Cestarelli</span>
			</a>
	  </li>
</ul>

[Information Visualization]: http://www.dia.uniroma3.it/~infovis/